# First Steps Towards Designing an AVS

Suppose, as a builder, you have thought about a primitive or a feature such as decentralized sequencing, data availability, or something else cool that you want to see be built as an AVS on EigenLayer. Now, the immediate question is how to start thinking about building that AVS on EigenLayer. As a first step, the first four questions that you should try to answer are:

1. What defines a Task in your AVS? An AVSs operation on EigenLayer can be broken down into units called “Task.” Informally, each “Task” describes the smallest unit of work that is to be done by the currently opted-in operators as per the AVSs distributed validation semantics. Defining the task will help you to think about the work operators will be required to perform, once they opt-in to your AVS.
2. What kind of trust does your AVS want to inherit? Answering this question will push you to think about what kind of operators you ideally want to permit to opt-in to participate in your AVS. For example, if your AVS only wants decentralized trust, then you can specify that only geographically diverse home stakers (certified by subjective oracles) can opt-in to your AVS. You can also read this [blog](https://www.blog.eigenlayer.xyz/the-three-dimensions-of-programmable-trust/) to determine the type of trust you wish to inherit.
3. Is the work being performed by the operator lightweight or heavyweight? If the trust or the combination of trust that your AVS wants to programmatically inherit from Ethereum via EigenLayer includes decentralized trust or Ethereum validator trust, then you might want to take steps to ensure that the work any operator is required to perform is lightweight. This allows the AVS to recruit the largest decentralized operator set possible and won't impose centralization risk on Ethereum validator set.
4. What are the slashing conditions? If your AVS includes slashing parameters, clearly stating the task responses that would result in an operator being considered in violation of AVSs validation semantics is essential.

Once you have a good understanding of how EigenLayer works and how your protocol would address these questions, please fill in our [AVS Questionnaire](https://bit.ly/avsquestions) and get in touch with us for any further questions.
