---
title: "[Goerli Testnet] Incident Update: \n Native Restaking Withdrawals Impacted on Goerli testnet"
slug: goerli-native-restaking-withdrawal-outage-feb-2024
tags: [goerli]
---

### Resolved [Feb 13, 2024 - 16:30 PT]

- This incident has been resolved.

- Additional Support: If you are still encountering issues with EigenPod withdrawals (partial or full), please share via the [EigenLayer Discord](https://discord.gg/eigenlayer) #support-restakers channel.

### Monitoring [Feb 07, 2024 - 16:30 PT]

- **Actions:** We identified some scalability bottlenecks that led to this incident. We deployed fixes this week, restored normal operation, and are continuing to monitor our service. We don’t expect users to face any further issues, and can resume normal operations of partial and full withdrawals from EigenPods on Goerli testnet.

- **Additional Support:** If you are still encountering issues with EigenPod withdrawals (partial or full), please raise your issue via the [EigenLayer Discord](https://discord.gg/eigenlayer) #support-restakers channel.

- **Safety of User Assets:** We assure all users that all funds on Goerli and mainnet have been safe and secure throughout the incident. There has been no impact on mainnet operations.

### Investigating [Feb 01, 2024 - 11:50 PT]

- **Incident Context:** We became aware of an issue on the Goerli testnet related to withdrawal proof generation that supports native ETH restaking functionality. This incident was confined to the testnet, with no impact on our mainnet operations.
- **Impact:** Staking users are not able to initiate EigenPod partial and full withdrawal on Goerli testnet.
- **Safety of User Assets:** While we work on a fix, we assure all users that all funds on Goerli and mainnet have been safe and secure throughout the incident.
- **Actions:** Our team declared this as an operational incident internally, and initiated a thorough investigation to understand the cause and impact of the issue.
